# Client-Sever-Development

# I make sure all my programs are maintainable, readable, and adaptable by following best practices. For maintainability, I make sure to leave clear and concise comments that inform contributors, or myself, what each line of code is doing. For readability, I make sure I structure my code, following standard coding conventions. Structuring code in blocks and indenting nested code organizes the code in such a way that readers can quickly identify where functions begin and end and follow the tree of control structures. I make sure the program is adaptable by organizing my code into modules, classes, and methods. This allows myself and others to integrate functions reducing redundancy. This was used in my CRUD Python module where I used a read() method for my Project One dashboard. Instead of having to create a method to authorize and read from the database, I was able to integrate the two methods specifically from an existing module. Since CRUD operations are universally necessary for databases, the module could be used in future assignments. Since the functionality was organized into different methods, each operation can be adapted to different programs independently.

# I approach problems like a computer scientist by breaking projects down into stages. My approach to the dashboard for Grazioso Salvare was to make each requirement into a user story. I made a simple high-level diagram showing the logical flow of the program. I then went through a cycle for each user story of planning with pseudocode, development, and testing. The biggest difference between this assignment and others in my courses was the research involved in the planning phase. I was still fairly unfamiliar with Jupyter-dash and developing widgets with it. This was also true for other tools in the course like Jupyter, MongoDB, and PyMongo. With my other courses I was familiar with everything with the exception of libraries used in graphic visualizations. In the future, my strategy is to do more in the planning and testing phases such as using more diagrams like UML’s and go through, unit, white box, and black box testing when developing databases.

# Computer scientists find solutions to problems using computer software or hardware. This is important as this form of engineering is surpassing mechanical engineering on the automation front, allowing for a more productive society. My work in the project for Grazioso Salvare helps the company by giving them quick and easy access to animals best suited for specific rescue tasks. Rather than them having to call around to shelters, they can look up animal availability all in one place and filter out animals that wouldn’t suite their needs. 
